geology1.txt
There are three major types of rock: igneous, sedimentary, and metamorphic. The rock cycle is an important concept in geology which illustrates the relationships between these three types of rock, and magma. When a rock crystallizes from melt (magma and/or lava), it is an igneous rock. This rock can be weathered and eroded, and then redeposited and lithified into a sedimentary rock, or be turned into a metamorphic rock due to heat and pressure that change the mineral content of the rock which gives it a characteristic fabric. The sedimentary rock can then be subsequently turned into a metamorphic rock due to heat and pressure and is then weathered, eroded, deposited, and lithified, ultimately becoming a sedimentary rock. Sedimentary rock may also be re-eroded and redeposited, and metamorphic rock may also undergo additional metamorphism. All three types of rocks may be re-melted; when this happens, a new magma is formed, from which an igneous rock may once again crystallize.

Question: An igneous rock is a rock that crystallizes from what?
Ground Truth Answer: melt
Predicted Answer: melt

Question: Sedimentary rock can be turned into which of the three types of rock?
Ground Truth Answer: metamorphic rock
Predicted Answer: igneous sedimentary and metamorphic

Question: When the three types of rock are re-melted what is formed?
Ground Truth Answer: a new magma
Predicted Answer: a new magma

Question: What are the three major types of rock?
Ground Truth Answer: igneous, sedimentary, and metamorphic
Predicted Answer: igneous, sedimentary, and metamorphic

Question: What changes the mineral content of a rock?
Ground Truth Answer: heat and pressure
Predicted Answer: heat and pressure

total Questions: 5.0
No. of answers predicted correctly: 4
accuracy: 0.8

geology10.txt
When rock units are placed under horizontal compression, they shorten and become thicker. Because rock units, other than muds, do not significantly change in volume, this is accomplished in two primary ways: through faulting and folding. In the shallow crust, where brittle deformation can occur, thrust faults form, which cause deeper rock to move on top of shallower rock. Because deeper rock is often older, as noted by the principle of superposition, this can result in older rocks moving on top of younger ones. Movement along faults can result in folding, either because the faults are not planar or because rock layers are dragged along, forming drag folds as slip occurs along the fault. Deeper in the Earth, rocks behave plastically, and fold instead of faulting. These folds can either be those where the material in the center of the fold buckles upwards, creating "antiforms", or where it buckles downwards, creating "synforms". If the tops of the rock units within the folds remain pointing upwards, they are called anticlines and synclines, respectively. If some of the units in the fold are facing downward, the structure is called an overturned anticline or syncline, and if all of the rock units are overturned or the correct up-direction is unknown, they are simply called by the most general terms, antiforms and synforms.

Question: Rock units become thicker and shorten when placed under this type of compression.
Ground Truth Answer: horizontal
Predicted Answer: <No Answer>

Question: Where do thrust faults form?
Ground Truth Answer: In the shallow crust
Predicted Answer: In the shallow crust

Question: When rock folds deep in the Earth it can fold one of two ways, when it buckles upwards it creates what?
Ground Truth Answer: antiforms
Predicted Answer: antiforms

Question: When rock folds deep in the Earth it can fold one of two ways, when it buckles downwards it creates what?
Ground Truth Answer: synforms
Predicted Answer: antiforms

Question: If the tops of the rock units within the folds remain pointing upwards, they are called what?
Ground Truth Answer: anticlines and synclines
Predicted Answer: anticlines and synclines

total Questions: 5.0
No. of answers predicted correctly: 3
accuracy: 0.6

geology2.txt
In the 1960s, a series of discoveries, the most important of which was seafloor spreading, showed that the Earth's lithosphere, which includes the crust and rigid uppermost portion of the upper mantle, is separated into a number of tectonic plates that move across the plastically deforming, solid, upper mantle, which is called the asthenosphere. There is an intimate coupling between the movement of the plates on the surface and the convection of the mantle: oceanic plate motions and mantle convection currents always move in the same direction, because the oceanic lithosphere is the rigid upper thermal boundary layer of the convecting mantle. This coupling between rigid plates moving on the surface of the Earth and the convecting mantle is called plate tectonics.

Question: What was the most important discovery that led to the understanding that Earth's lithosphere is separated into tectonic plates?
Ground Truth Answer: seafloor spreading
Predicted Answer: seafloor spreading

Question: Which parts of the Earth are included in the lithosphere?
Ground Truth Answer: crust and rigid uppermost portion
Predicted Answer: the crust and rigid uppermost portion of the upper mantle

Question: What is another word for the Earth's upper mantle?
Ground Truth Answer: asthenosphere
Predicted Answer: asthenosphere

Question: Plate tectonics can be seen as the intimate coupling between rigid plates on the surface of the Earth and what?
Ground Truth Answer: convecting mantle
Predicted Answer: convecting mantle

Question: In what decade was seafloor spreading discovered?
Ground Truth Answer: 1960s
Predicted Answer: 1960s

Question: When was the most important discovery about thermal boundaries made?
Ground Truth Answer: No Answer
Predicted Answer: 1960s

Question: What is another word for seafloor spreading?
Ground Truth Answer: No Answer
Predicted Answer: <No Answer>

total Questions: 7.0
No. of answers predicted correctly: 5
accuracy: 0.7142857142857143

geology3.txt
The development of plate tectonics provided a physical basis for many observations of the solid Earth. Long linear regions of geologic features could be explained as plate boundaries. Mid-ocean ridges, high regions on the seafloor where hydrothermal vents and volcanoes exist, were explained as divergent boundaries, where two plates move apart. Arcs of volcanoes and earthquakes were explained as convergent boundaries, where one plate subducts under another. Transform boundaries, such as the San Andreas fault system, resulted in widespread powerful earthquakes. Plate tectonics also provided a mechanism for Alfred Wegener's theory of continental drift, in which the continents move across the surface of the Earth over geologic time. They also provided a driving force for crustal deformation, and a new setting for the observations of structural geology. The power of the theory of plate tectonics lies in its ability to combine all of these observations into a single theory of how the lithosphere moves over the convecting mantle.

Question: What is the area called where two plates move apart?
Ground Truth Answer: divergent boundaries
Predicted Answer: divergent boundaries

Question: What is the area called where one plate subducts under another?
Ground Truth Answer: convergent boundaries
Predicted Answer: convergent boundaries

Question: What type of fault boundary is defined by having widespread powerful earthquakes, as in the state of California?
Ground Truth Answer: Transform boundaries
Predicted Answer: San Andreas fault system

Question: Whose theory was the theory of continental drift?
Ground Truth Answer: Alfred Wegener
Predicted Answer: Alfred Wegener

Question: The lithosphere moves over which mantle n the theory of plate tectonics?
Ground Truth Answer: convecting mantle
Predicted Answer: convecting mantle

total Questions: 5.0
No. of answers predicted correctly: 4
accuracy: 0.8

geology4.txt
Seismologists can use the arrival times of seismic waves in reverse to image the interior of the Earth. Early advances in this field showed the existence of a liquid outer core (where shear waves were not able to propagate) and a dense solid inner core. These advances led to the development of a layered model of the Earth, with a crust and lithosphere on top, the mantle below (separated within itself by seismic discontinuities at 410 and 660 kilometers), and the outer core and inner core below that. More recently, seismologists have been able to create detailed images of wave speeds inside the earth in the same way a doctor images a body in a CT scan. These images have led to a much more detailed view of the interior of the Earth, and have replaced the simplified layered model with a much more dynamic model.

Question: What types of waves do seismologists use to image the interior of the Earth?
Ground Truth Answer: seismic waves
Predicted Answer: seismic waves

Question: In the layered model of the Earth, the outermost layer is what?
Ground Truth Answer: crust
Predicted Answer: dynamic model

Question: In the layered model of the Earth, the mantle has two layers below it. What are they?
Ground Truth Answer: crust and lithosphere
Predicted Answer: crust and lithosphere

Question: In the layered model of the Earth there are seismic discontinuities in which layer?
Ground Truth Answer: mantle
Predicted Answer: <No Answer>

Question: Recently a more detailed model of the Earth was developed. Seismologists were able to create this using images of what from the interior of the Earth?
Ground Truth Answer: wave speeds
Predicted Answer: wave speeds

Question: What do seismologists use to map the Earth's crust?
Ground Truth Answer: No Answ
Predicted Answer: the arrival times of seismic waves

total Questions: 6.0
No. of answers predicted correctly: 3
accuracy: 0.5

geology5.txt
The following four timelines show the geologic time scale. The first shows the entire time from the formation of the Earth to the present, but this compresses the most recent eon. Therefore, the second scale shows the most recent eon with an expanded scale. The second scale compresses the most recent era, so the most recent era is expanded in the third scale. Since the Quaternary is a very short period with short epochs, it is further expanded in the fourth scale. The second, third, and fourth timelines are therefore each subsections of their preceding timeline as indicated by asterisks. The Holocene (the latest epoch) is too small to be shown clearly on the third timeline on the right, another reason for expanding the fourth scale. The Pleistocene (P) epoch. Q stands for the Quaternary period.

Question: Why is the second timeline needed?
Ground Truth Answer: compresses the most recent era
Predicted Answer: compresses the most recent era

Question: Which timeline is further expanded in the fourth scale?
Ground Truth Answer: Quaternary
Predicted Answer: Quaternary

Question: What is the name of the latest epoch?
Ground Truth Answer: Holocene
Predicted Answer: Holocene

Question: The Pleistocene epoch takes place during which period?
Ground Truth Answer: Quaternary
Predicted Answer: Quaternary

Question: What does the second timeline compress?
Ground Truth Answer: No Answ
Predicted Answer: the most recent era

total Questions: 5.0
No. of answers predicted correctly: 4
accuracy: 0.8

geology6.txt
The principle of cross-cutting relationships pertains to the formation of faults and the age of the sequences through which they cut. Faults are younger than the rocks they cut; accordingly, if a fault is found that penetrates some formations but not those on top of it, then the formations that were cut are older than the fault, and the ones that are not cut must be younger than the fault. Finding the key bed in these situations may help determine whether the fault is a normal fault or a thrust fault.

Question: What principle relates to the formation of faults and the age of the sequences through which they cut?
Ground Truth Answer: cross-cutting relationships
Predicted Answer: cross-cutting relationships

Question: When rock formations are found on top of a fault that have not been cut, then they must be older or younger than the fault?
Ground Truth Answer: younger
Predicted Answer: younger

Question: Finding what helps to determine if a fault is a normal fault or a thrust fault?
Ground Truth Answer: key bed
Predicted Answer: key bed

Question: Rocks on top of a fault that are cut are always older or younger than the fault itself?
Ground Truth Answer: older than the fau
Predicted Answer: younger

total Questions: 4.0
No. of answers predicted correctly: 3
accuracy: 0.75

geology7.txt
The principle of inclusions and components states that, with sedimentary rocks, if inclusions (or clasts) are found in a formation, then the inclusions must be older than the formation that contains them. For example, in sedimentary rocks, it is common for gravel from an older formation to be ripped up and included in a newer layer. A similar situation with igneous rocks occurs when xenoliths are found. These foreign bodies are picked up as magma or lava flows, and are incorporated, later to cool in the matrix. As a result, xenoliths are older than the rock which contains them.

Question: What foreign bodies, which are older than the rocks themselves, occur igneous rocks?
Ground Truth Answer: xenoliths
Predicted Answer: xenoliths

Question: Xenoliths are picked up by what and deposited into the matrix of igneous rocks?
Ground Truth Answer: lava flows
Predicted Answer: lava flows

Question: What is another word for inclusions in sedimentary rocks?
Ground Truth Answer: clasts
Predicted Answer: clasts

Question: What is the principle that states that with sedimentary rocks, inclusions must be older than the formation that contains them?
Ground Truth Answer: principle of inclusions and components
Predicted Answer: if inclusions (or clasts are found in a formation

Question: What is something that is often torn up and included in sedimentary rock?
Ground Truth Answer: gravel
Predicted Answer: gravel

total Questions: 5.0
No. of answers predicted correctly: 4
accuracy: 0.8

geology8.txt
At the beginning of the 20th century, important advancement in geological science was facilitated by the ability to obtain accurate absolute dates to geologic events using radioactive isotopes and other methods. This changed the understanding of geologic time. Previously, geologists could only use fossils and stratigraphic correlation to date sections of rock relative to one another. With isotopic dates it became possible to assign absolute ages to rock units, and these absolute dates could be applied to fossil sequences in which there was datable material, converting the old relative ages into new absolute ages.

Question: When was the ability to use radioactive isotopes to date rock formations developed?
Ground Truth Answer: beginning of the 20th century
Predicted Answer: beginning of the 20th century

Question: What type of correlation was used previously to help date rock formations?
Ground Truth Answer: stratigraphic
Predicted Answer: stratigraphic

Question: It is now possible to convert old relative ages into what type of ages using isotopic dating?
Ground Truth Answer: absolute ages
Predicted Answer: absolute ages

Question: Previous to isotopic dating sections of rocks had to be dated using fossils and stratigraphic correlation relative to what?
Ground Truth Answer: one another
Predicted Answer: one another

Question: When dating rocks, what is the absolute isotopic date applied to?
Ground Truth Answer: fossil sequences
Predicted Answer: fossil sequences

Question: What do seismologists use to map the Earth's crust?
Ground Truth Answer: No Answ
Predicted Answer: radioactive isotopes

total Questions: 6.0
No. of answers predicted correctly: 5
accuracy: 0.8333333333333334

geology9.txt
For many geologic applications, isotope ratios of radioactive elements are measured in minerals that give the amount of time that has passed since a rock passed through its particular closure temperature, the point at which different radiometric isotopes stop diffusing into and out of the crystal lattice. These are used in geochronologic and thermochronologic studies. Common methods include uranium-lead dating, potassium-argon dating, argon-argon dating and uranium-thorium dating. These methods are used for a variety of applications. Dating of lava and volcanic ash layers found within a stratigraphic sequence can provide absolute age data for sedimentary rock units which do not contain radioactive isotopes and calibrate relative dating techniques. These methods can also be used to determine ages of pluton emplacement. Thermochemical techniques can be used to determine temperature profiles within the crust, the uplift of mountain ranges, and paleotopography.

Question: What techniques can be used to determine paleotopography?
Ground Truth Answer: Thermochemical
Predicted Answer: Thermochemical

Question: The point at which different radiometric isotopes stop diffusing into and out of the crystal lattice is called what?
Ground Truth Answer: closure temperature
Predicted Answer: closure temperature

Question: What type of ratios are used in geochronologic and thermochronologic studies?
Ground Truth Answer: isotope ratios
Predicted Answer: isotope ratios

Question: How can you find the absolute age of sedimentary rock units which do not contain radioactive isotopes?
Ground Truth Answer: Dating of lava and volcanic ash layers
Predicted Answer: Dating of lava and volcanic ash layers

total Questions: 4.0
No. of answers predicted correctly: 4
accuracy: 1.0


 Number      Filename       Total Que Correctly Predicted  Accuracy
 1          geology1.txt         5.0        3               0.6
 2          geology10.txt        5.0        3               0.6
 3          geology2.txt         7.0        5               0.7142857142857143
 4          geology3.txt         5.0        4               0.8
 5          geology4.txt         6.0        3               0.5
 6          geology5.txt         5.0        4               0.8
 7          geology6.txt         4.0        3               0.75
 8          geology7.txt         5.0        4               0.8
 9          geology8.txt         6.0        5               0.8333333333333334
 10         geology9.txt         4.0        4               1.0
